# Hospital Software System

Desktop application using Python framework software to manage a hospital

## 1.1 ABSTRAC
Hospital Management System is an organized computerized system designed and
programmed to deal with day to day operations and management of the hospital
activities. The program can look after inpatients, outpatients, records, database
treatments, status illness, billings in the pharmacy and labs. It also maintains hospital
information such as ward id, doctors in charge and department administering. The
major problem for the patient nowadays to get report after consultation , many
hospital managing reports in their system but it's not available to the patient when he /
she is outside. In this project we are going to provide the extra facility to store the
report in the database and make available from anywhere in the world.

## 1.2 Introduction:
The project Hospital Management system includes registration of patients, storing their
details into the system, and also computerized billing in the pharmacy, and labs. The
software has the facility to give a unique id for every patient and stores the details of
every patient and the staff automatically. It includes a search facility to know the current
status of each room. User can search availability of a doctor and the details of a patient
using the id.
The Hospital Management System can be entered using a username and password. It is
accessible either by an administrator or receptionist. Only they can add data into the
database. The data can be retrieved easily. The interface is very user-friendly. The data
are well protected for personal use and makes the data processing very fast.
Hospital Management System is powerful, flexible, and easy to use and is designed and
developed to deliver real conceivable benefits to hospitals.
Hospital Management System is designed for multispeciality hospitals, to cover a wide
range of hospital administration and management processes. It is an integrated end-toend Hospital Management System that provides relevant information across the hospital
to support effective decision making for patient care, hospital administration and
critical financial accounting, in a seamless flow.
Hospital Management System is a software product suite designed to improve the
quality and management of hospital management in the areas of clinical process analysis
and activity-based costing. Hospital Management System enables you to develop your
organization and improve its effectiveness and quality of work. Managing the key
processes efficiently is critical to the success of the hospital helps you manage your
processes

## 1.3 Problem Introduction:
Lack of immediate retrievals: -
The information is very difficult to retrieve and to find particular information like- E.g. -
To find out about the patient’s history, the user has to go through various registers. This
results in in convenienceand wastage of time.
Lack of immediate information storage: -
The information generated by various transactions takes time and efforts to be stored at
right place.
Lack of prompt updating: -
Various changes to information like patient details or immunization details of child are
difficult to make as paper work is involved.
Error prone manual calculation: -
Manual calculations are error prone and take a lot of time this may result in incorrect
information. For example calculation of patient’s bill based on various treatments.
Preparation of accurate and prompt reports: -
This becomes a difficult task as information is difficult to collect from various register.

## 1.4 Goals:-

1) User friendly
2) Simple fast
3) Low cost and effective
4) It deals with the collection of patient’s information
5) Diagnosis

## 1.5 Objective:-
1) Define hospital
2) Recording information about the Patients that come.
3) Generating bills.
4) Recording information related to diagnosis given to Patients.
5) Keeping record of the Immunization provided to children/patients.
6) Keeping information about various diseases and medicines available to cure them.

These are the various jobs that need to be done in a Hospital by the operational staff and
Doctors. All these works are done on papers.
